# February 2021 OKR Review

Status review for OKRs to apply some accountability for making progress towards the goal.

## Current OKRs

### Be more focused
1. Complete 10 books and summary/takeaway write-ups this calendar year  
    * Status: 0 books completed, 2 books in progress. Writing notes/summary as I read through them in my phone Notes app.  

1. Write 1 new blog post per month  
    * Status: 0 blog posts in Januray, 1 blog post in February on [#LetsGreenTheWeb](https://dubrie.medium.com/letsgreentheweb-together-d54e81f1bdb6) initiative.  

1. Maintain 30% focus time (2+ hour blocks) at work per week  
    * Status: Have not met the 30% bar yet and February has gotten worse from a percentage stand-point.

|Date|Focus Time %|
  |------|------| 
  | Jan 3-9 | 21.11% | 
  | Jan 10-16 | 22.22% | 
  | Jan 17-23 | 18.06% | 
  | Jan 24-30 | 25.56% |
  | Jan 31-Feb 6 | 20.00% | 
  | Feb 7-Feb 13 | 14.44% | 
  | Feb 14-Feb 20 | 0.00% |  

### Become a better friend and family member
1. Connect with 5 friends per week  
    * Status: Have not kept hard metrics on this but qualitatively I have not met the bar. Will have to consider the best way to measure this going forward.  
  
1. Connect with 2 family members per week  
    * Status: Have missed on 1 week but have maintained this all the other ones so far this year.  
  
1. Connect with 2 new co-workers per month  
    * Status: Exceeding 2 per month (3.5 average) for January and February. May expand to re-connection with co-workers that I haven't talked with in X years.  

### Explore the natural world to gain better perspective on the planet
1. 1 10k+ trail run per week and 2 first-time trails per month  
    * Status: Successful in January, unsuccessful in February due to hamstring injury and no running for 4-6 weeks.    
1. Visit 3 National Parks  
    * Status: 0 National Parks visited.    
1. Know history and present-day leadership for 3 Native American tribes  
    * Status: Used [https://native-land.ca/](https://native-land.ca/) to identify geographically relevant lands to my life/history and the tribes that inhabited them: Coast Salish, Confederate Tribes of Warm Springs, and Peroria. 

