# March 2021 OKR Review

Status review for OKRs to apply some accountability for making progress towards the goal.

## Current OKRs

### Be more focused
1. Complete 10 books and summary/takeaway write-ups this calendar year  
    * Status: 2 books completed (20% of goal), 2 books in progress.  
    * Completed Books: Accelerate, [News Of The World](/archive/books/news-of-the-world.md)

1. Write 1 new blog post per month  
    * Status: 2 blog posts (.66 posts per month)  
    * January: 0 posts, February: 2 posts ([#LetsGreenTheWeb](https://dubrie.medium.com/letsgreentheweb-together-d54e81f1bdb6) initiative, [Sustainability in Site Reliability Engineering](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/sustainable-software/sustainability-in-site-reliability-engineering-sre/)), March: 0 posts.

1. Maintain 30% focus time (2+ hour blocks) at work per week  
    * Status: Have not met the 30% bar yet, March is tracking under as well but set a new peak of 27.78%.

|Date|Focus Time %|
  |------|------| 
  | Jan 3-9 | 21.11% | 
  | Jan 10-16 | 22.22% | 
  | Jan 17-23 | 18.06% | 
  | Jan 24-30 | 25.56% |
  | Jan 31-Feb 6 | 20.00% | 
  | Feb 7-Feb 13 | 14.44% | 
  | Feb 14-Feb 20 | 0.00% |  
  | Feb 21-Feb 27 | 22.22% |  
  | Feb 28-Mar 6 | 27.78% |  
  | Mar 7-Mar 13 | 8.89% |  
  | Mar 14-Mar 20 | 24.44% |  

### Become a better friend and family member
1. Connect with 5 friends per week  
    * Status: No hard metrics, qualitatively getting closer to the bar but not there yet.  
    * COVID vaccinations, March Madness/sports, and Spring time seems to have naturally improved this.   
  
1. Connect with 2 family members per week  
    * Status: Have missed 1 week in February otherwise met requirement.  
  
1. Connect with 2 new co-workers per month  
    * Status: Increased average to 5 per month for Jan/Feb/Mar.  
    * Planning and roadmap exercises at work have contributed to the increase here.  

### Explore the natural world to gain better perspective on the planet
1. 1 10k+ trail run per week and 2 first-time trails per month  
    * Status: Successful in January and March, unsuccessful in February due to hamstring injury and no running for 4-6 weeks.    
1. Visit 3 National Parks  
    * Status: 1 National Park visited.  
1. Know history and present-day leadership for 3 Native American tribes  
    * Status: Started reading about Coast Salish. Will look into Confederate Tribes of Warm Springs and Peroria next. 

