# April 2021 OKR Review

Status review for OKRs to apply some accountability for making progress towards the goal.

## Current OKRs

### Be more focused
1. Complete 10 books and summary/takeaway write-ups this calendar year  
    * Status: 2 books completed (20% of goal), 2 books still in progress.  
    * Completed Books: Accelerate, [News Of The World](/archive/books/news-of-the-world.md)

1. Write 1 new blog post per month  
    * Status: 2 blog posts (.66 posts per month)  
    * January: 0 posts, February: 2 posts ([#LetsGreenTheWeb](https://dubrie.medium.com/letsgreentheweb-together-d54e81f1bdb6) initiative, [Sustainability in Site Reliability Engineering](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/sustainable-software/sustainability-in-site-reliability-engineering-sre/)), March: 0 posts, April: 0 posts.

1. Maintain 30% focus time (2+ hour blocks) at work per week  
    * Status: Have not met the 30% bar yet, April is tracking under but seeing more consistency at the 20% level.

|Date|Focus Time %|
  |------|------| 
  | Jan 3-9 | 21.11% | 
  | Jan 10-16 | 22.22% | 
  | Jan 17-23 | 18.06% | 
  | Jan 24-30 | 25.56% |
  | Jan 31-Feb 6 | 20.00% | 
  | Feb 7-Feb 13 | 14.44% | 
  | Feb 14-Feb 20 | 0.00% |  
  | Feb 21-Feb 27 | 22.22% |  
  | Feb 28-Mar 6 | 27.78% |  
  | Mar 7-Mar 13 | 8.89% |  
  | Mar 14-Mar 20 | 24.44% |  
  | Mar 21-Mar 27 | 20.00% |
  | Mar 28-Apr 3 | 0.00% |
  | Apr 4-Apr 10 | 20.00% | 
  | Apr 11-Apr 17 | 20.00% |

### Become a better friend and family member
1. Connect with 5 friends per week  
    * Status: No hard metrics, qualitatively falling away from the bar this month with extra pressure and time from the work side.  
    * COVID vaccinations, March Madness/sports, Spring time, and travel opening up have had positive influence.   
  
1. Connect with 2 family members per week  
    * Status: Missed 1 week in February, and 2 weeks in April.  
  
1. Connect with 2 new co-workers per month  
    * Status: 22 people in April. Average of 5 per month for Jan/Feb/Mar.  
    * Project that involves meeting and talking everyone in an on-call rotation has drastically improved these numbers.  

### Explore the natural world to gain better perspective on the planet
1. 1 10k+ trail run per week and 2 first-time trails per month  
    * Status: Distance goal met for April, still working on first-time trails. Successful in January and March, unsuccessful in February due to hamstring injury and no running for 4-6 weeks.    
1. Visit 3 National Parks  
    * Status: 1 National Park visited.  
1. Know history and present-day leadership for 3 Native American tribes  
    * Status: Continued reading about Coast Salish on various reference websites. Looking into Confederate Tribes of Warm Springs and Peroria next. 

