# May 2021 OKR Review

Status review for OKRs to apply some accountability for making progress towards the goal.

## Current OKRs

### Be more focused
1. Complete 10 books and summary/takeaway write-ups this calendar year  
    * Status: 3 books completed (30% of goal), 2 books in progress.  
    * Completed Books: Accelerate, [News Of The World](/archive/books/news-of-the-world.md), [Switching To Solar](/archive/books/switching-to-solar.md)

1. Write 1 new blog post per month  
    * Status: 4 blog posts (0.8 posts per month)  
    * Jan: 0 posts 
    * Feb: 2 posts ([#LetsGreenTheWeb](https://dubrie.medium.com/letsgreentheweb-together-d54e81f1bdb6) initiative, [Sustainability in Site Reliability Engineering](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/sustainable-software/sustainability-in-site-reliability-engineering-sre/))
    * March: 0 posts 
    * April: 1 post ([Earth Day 2021](https://dubrie.medium.com/earth-day-2021-3273142ea860))
    * May: 1 post ([SRE Cultural Values](https://dubrie.medium.com/sre-cultural-values-a0073b475183))

1. Maintain 30% focus time (2+ hour blocks) at work per week  
    * Status: Have not met the 30% bar yet, April and May are tracking about flat just below the 20% level.

|Date|Focus Time %|
  |------|------| 
  | Jan 3-9 | 21.11% | 
  | Jan 10-16 | 22.22% | 
  | Jan 17-23 | 18.06% | 
  | Jan 24-30 | 25.56% |
  | Jan 31-Feb 6 | 20.00% | 
  | Feb 7-13 | 14.44% | 
  | Feb 14-20 | 0.00% |  
  | Feb 21-27 | 22.22% |  
  | Feb 28-Mar 6 | 27.78% |  
  | Mar 7-13 | 8.89% |  
  | Mar 14-20 | 24.44% |  
  | Mar 21-27 | 20.00% |
  | Mar 28-Apr 3 | 0.00% |
  | Apr 4-10 | 20.00% | 
  | Apr 11-17 | 20.00% |
  | Apr 18-24 | 12.22% |
  | Apr 25-1 | 12.22% |
  | May 2-8 | 16.67% | 
  | May 9-15 | 15.56% |
  | May 16-22 | 11.11% |
  | May 23-30 | 19.75% |

### Become a better friend and family member
1. Connect with 5 friends per week  
    * Status: No hard metrics, talking much more with college friends and spent a weekend together. Been very difficult with increased work pressure   
    * COVID vaccinations, March Madness/sports, Spring time, and travel opening up have had positive influence.   
  
1. Connect with 2 family members per week  
    * Status: Missed 1 week in February, and 2 weeks in April.
    * Past month has seen a string of family issues and caused a tighter connection because of it  
  
1. Connect with 2 new co-workers per month  
    * Status: 24 people in May, average of 5.125 per month for Jan/Feb/Mar/Apr.  
    * Continued project that involves meeting and talking everyone in an on-call rotation has drastically improved these numbers.  

### Explore the natural world to gain better perspective on the planet
1. 1 10k+ trail run per week and 2 first-time trails per month  
    * Status: Distance goal and first-time trails met for May
    * Previous: Distance goal met for April, still working on first-time trails. Successful in January and March, unsuccessful in February due to hamstring injury and no running for 4-6 weeks.    
1. Visit 3 National Parks  
    * Status: 1 National Park visited.  
1. Know history and present-day leadership for 3 Native American tribes  
    * Status: A little, but not much Coast Salish research. Confederate Tribes of Warm Springs and Peroria are queued up next. 

